---
title: "Week 49"
date: 2021-12-06
author: markus spath
---

_will be updated during the week to keep things together_

`2021-12-12`

## aoc day 12 Passage Passing

todays AoC was a tough one for me, since I ran into the woods not finding the exit condition for the recursion. still fun und completed in time.

---

`2021-12-11`

## aoc day 11 Dumbo Octopus

todays AoC was a fun one. we had to navigate our submarine through a grid of bioluminisent octopuses.

--

also finished the 'parking lot' project at the jetbrains academy.

---

`2021-12-10`

## aoc day 10 Syntax Scoring

todays AoC was another fun one. we had to help out syntax scoring algorithms picking a winner in their contests.

--

also did part one of AoC 20 day 7 HandyHaversacks.

--

also finished the 'mines sweeper' project at the 'kotlin developer track'. it actually was fun and surprisingly challanging.

--

then started the 'parking lot' project.

---

`2021-12-09`

## aoc day 9 Smoke Basin

todays AoC was another good paced one. it was a similar problem to mine sweeper which I started coincidentally two days ago. the task was to fill basins.

---

`2021-12-08`

## aoc day 8 Seven Segment Search

todays AoC was reasonably tricky. the task was to decode seven segment signal patterns which have been scrambled. I've pretty much hardcoded the algorithm to match the patterns but this problem lends itself to being revisited and tried in a more 'computational' way (brute force, rule based based on the given constraints, etc. I'd also love to see peter norvigs approach to this)

---

`2021-12-07`

## aoc day 7 Treachery of Whales

todays AoC 21 was pretty straighforward. the task was to coordinate a fleet of submarines of a swarm of crabs to fight off a whale.

--

also started with the 'mines sweeper' project from the 'kotlin developer track'.

---

`2021-12-06`

## aoc day 6 Laternfish

todays AoC 21 was about exponential growth. my initial solution used a recursive approach which was able to yield a result, but my macbook had to work for it.

but once you figure out that you basically just have to keep track of the number of fish based on their lifecycle it becomes hilariously simple to solve. our brains just are not wired for understanding exponential growth.

--

I also finished the 'simple search engine' project from the 'kotlin developer track'. overall a nice project which does open a spectrum of little cli apps one might want to build for himself.
