---
title: "December"
date: 2021-12-01
author: markus spath
---

_will be updated during the month to keep things together_

## day 1

todays AoC 21 was a cute warm up. task was to find matching numbers.

jetbrains reference solution had two nice gems: `windowed`and destructuring in lambdas. this is fantastic for all sorts of list manipulations without having to deal with the edges.

```kotlin
    println(
        input
            .windowed(2)
            .count { (a, b) -> b > a }
    )
```

## day 2

todays AoC 21 was another easy one. task was to navigate a submarine in the seas. I tried to keep it functional'ish with fold.

the whole momentum around AoC is massive. it's super interesting to see the same solution in dozens of different languages, it's also insane how fast the top competitive programmers are. also tons of videos and tutorials, everyone seems to be in good spirits. I'm glad I found it.

## day 3

todays AoC 21 picked it up a notch. the task was to decode ratings, the setup lended itself to bitwise operations and recursion i.e. we had to deal with increasing subsets.

If you have a good grasp on bitwise operations, shifts, mapping and masking this probably would allow for a solution in a couple of lines, but I hit too many roadblocks.

my solution was ok'ish in the end, I just stuck to Strings and providing filters.

## day 4

todays AoC 21 was easier again. the task was to battle against a giant squid in a bingo game.

my major takeaway: do read the instructions carefully. I got thrown off twice 'cause the result were wrong just to find out that I just was calculating the wrong thing. unlike other challenges or tasks AoC seems to be carefully drafted and usually concise and non ambiguous.