---
title: "Week 48"
date: 2021-11-29
author: markus spath
---

`2021-12-05`

## aoc day 5

todays AoC 21 was about keeping track of lines on a grid.

---

`2021-12-04`

## aoc day 4

todays AoC 21 was easier again. the task was to battle against a giant squid in a bingo game.

my major takeaway: do read the instructions carefully. I got thrown off twice 'cause the result were wrong just to find out that I just was calculating the wrong thing. unlike other challenges or tasks AoC seems to be carefully drafted and usually concise and non ambiguous.

--

also did day 6 of AoC 20: custom customs, which basically is about reading input and mangling it in a way that kotlins collection methods can do the rest.

--

also started with the Simple Search Engine project in jetbrains kotlin developer track.

---

`2021-12-03`

## aoc day 3

todays AoC 21 picked it up a notch. the task was to decode ratings, the setup lended itself to bitwise operations and recursion i.e. we had to deal with increasing subsets.

If you have a good grasp on bitwise operations, shifts, mapping and masking this probably would allow for a solution in a couple of lines, but I hit too many roadblocks.

my solution was ok'ish in the end, I just stuck to Strings and providing filters.

---

`2021-12-02`

## aoc day 2

todays AoC 21 was another easy one. task was to navigate a submarine in the seas. I tried to keep it functional'ish with fold.

the whole momentum around AoC is massive. it's super interesting to see the same solution in dozens of different languages, it's also insane how fast the top competitive programmers are. also tons of videos and tutorials, everyone seems to be in good spirits. I'm glad I found it.

--

also did day 3 of AoC 20: toboggan trajectory, which is about counting stuff in a conceptual world. again tried to solve it functional'ish with fold.

--

also did day 4 of AoC 20: passport processing. mainly about validating input with regex.

--

also did day 5 of AoC 20: binary boarding. main takeaway was how the understanding / reframing of the problem affects any solution. obviously if you can't see a pattern you can't see yourself not 'can't seeing', but it probably helps to understand and think about the problem.

---

`2021-12-01`

### aoc day 1

todays AoC 21 was a cute warm up. task was to find matching numbers.

jetbrains reference solution had two nice gems: `windowed` and destructuring in lambdas. this is fantastic for all sorts of list manipulations without having to deal with the edges.

```kotlin
    println(
        input
            .windowed(2)
            .count { (a, b) -> b > a }
    )
```

--

also did day 1 of AoC 20: repost repair, which was a task about finding complementary numbers. actually I kinda liked my solution of creating a map on the go so that any matches will be found in the first go.

another goodie from jetbrains walkthroughs:

```kotlin
fun List<Int>.findPairOfSum(sum: Int): Pair<Int, Int>? {
    val complements = associateBy { sum - it }
    return firstNotNullOfOrNull { number ->
        val complement = complements[number]
        if (complement != null) Pair(number, complement) else null
    }
}
```

`associate`, `associateBy` and `associateWith` probably will come in hugely handy.

see

- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o4emra1xm88
- https://github.com/kotlin-hands-on/advent-of-code-2020/tree/master/src/day1d

---

also did day 2 of AoC 20: password philosophy, which is about validating strings via regex and destructioning.

---

`2021-11-30`

just testing whether my github pages repository still works. magically it does.

I'm thinking about finally making use of these fantastic github pages by keeping a diary of the _100 days of code_ challenge and/or _advent of code 2021_. Nothing fancy or particulary useful, just as some sort of habit for holding myself accountable a bit.
