---
title: "Week 52"
date: 2021-12-27
author: markus spath
---

`2022-01-02`

## Day 10 Adapter Array

find combinations of adapters. 

## Day 11 Seating System

document the flow of people's strategy for taking a seat.


`2022-01-01`

happy new year!

installed rust and started to take a peek. (I didn't have any particulary good reason to pick rust over any other programming language, but I want to learn a new one in 2022 and rust 'hat mich angelacht', so rust it is. I also don't have a particlularly good reason to want to learn a new language, I'm really happy with kotlin and I kinda don't want to risk overwriting my feeling for it, but I think it's also good to palate cleanse your take on programming every once in a while.)

`2022-12-31`

[break]

`2022-12-30`

implemented stage 3 of the steganography app of the kotlin track. fun task about how to hide information in unused/unsignificant parts of an image, unfortunately I got stuck in probably some off by one error when reconstructing the bytes. 

`2022-12-29`

implemented stage 1 and 3 of the steganography app of the kotlin track. nice to see image manipulation again.

`2021-12-28`

## aoc 20 day 9 Encoding Error

find out whether previous numbers add up or not.

I couldn't complete part II since I did not fully understand the heuristics of counting possible connections. the solution once again becomes easier, when you figure out what does not affect the answer. here we only have to take a look at the possible combinations of steps of 1 leading up to the next step of 3 since 3 provide a 'stop'

`2021-12-27`

## aoc 20 day 8 Handheld Halting

fix the boot code of your console by discovering the loop created by the instructions (acc, nop, jmp).

then find the one switched instruction which causes the problems.

another puzzle which becomes really easy once you figure out what you don't need to do. i.e. you don' need to create all possible variations of the program, you just can iterate over the original sequence and just switch one instruction at the index of the variation. you also can just skip variations for acc's.

--

also reached 95% at jetbrain academy's kotlin developer track. 
