---
title: "Week 50"
date: 2021-12-13
author: markus spath
---

`2021-12-19`

## aoc day 19 Beacon Scanner

3d puzzle. I had to give another pass. Need to brush up on matrices and backtracking first.

`2021-12-18`

## aoc day 18 Snail Fish

I had to give a pass on this one. Need to brush up on trees first.

`2021-12-17`

## aoc day 17 Trick Shot

take probes in the sea. I got lucky with my solution since I found a correct answer just by setting various ranges, it will not relyably work on other inputs.

(the max range probably can be deducted by the size of the target field)

`2021-12-16`

## aoc day 16 Packet Decoder

write a parser for the Buoyancy Interchange Transmission System.

this was tough but rewarding.

`2021-12-15`

## aoc day 15 Chiton

find the shortest path through a cave covered in chitons.

another fun one, especially if you kind of reinvent a poor man's dijkstra.

`2021-12-14`

## aoc day 14 Extended Polymerization

second part of todays AoC was a tricky one again. those puzzles are great for getting a sense of data structures required for tackling problems which can't be just brute forced.

need to revisit this for better solutions.

--

continued working ond the 'seam carving' project which is fun. provided good algorithms image manipulation is a rewarding activity.

`2021-12-13`

## aoc day 13 Transparent Origami

todays AoC was at the easier side again, still fun. the task basically was folding and mapping/merging points and thus finding a scret key.

--

also started the 'seam carving' project at the jetbrains academy. this might be interesting since it introduces matrices and image manipulation.
